#summary How-to create client side classes against wss?

= How-to create client side classes against wss? =

Here you can find out how-to create client side classes against WebServiceServlet. This example is based on Eclipse. You need to do following steps:

  # Create a project (e.g. simple java project) from where you want to access WebServiceServlet
  # Right click your projects src folder and select from popup menu new and from there other
  # Navigate there to WebServices -> Web Service Client

This will open the wizard for you where you can enter your Web Service's wsdl url (e.g. http://localhost:8888/test/ws?wsdl). Finnish the wizard. This will create required classes into your src folder.

After you have create these classes you can start to use those. Below is the source code of simple example class where these "autogenerated" classes are used.

{{{

package test;

import org.vnetcon.test.*;

public class CallTest {

	public static void main(String[] args){
		
		try{
			// from here you will get the client class
			WebSerivceServiceLocator port = new WebSerivceServiceLocator();
			// This is the actual client class with your methods on server side
			// this is the class you use for communication
			WebSerivce srv = port.getWebSerivcePort();
			Employee emp = srv.getName();
			emp.setName("Michael says hello.");
			// this is the call to server side
			String reply = srv.setEmployee(emp);
			// This will print out the server response
			System.out.println("reply: " + reply);
			System.out.println("emp name: " + srv.getName().getName());
		}catch(Exception ex){
			System.out.println("error in main: " + ex);
			ex.printStackTrace();
		}
		
	}
	
}


}}}